---
slug: "8007"
authors: a <a@trwnh.com>
status: DRAFT
dateReceived: 2024-04-08
---

# FEP-8007: A conformance profile for social networking services


## Summary

The ActivityPub specification defines three conformance profiles: Clients, Servers, and Federated Servers. Many social networking services do not conform fully to any of these profiles, except perhaps partially conforming to the Federated Server profile. This FEP aims to provide a conformance profile containing features expected of a social networking service.

## Introduction

(This section is non-normative.)

Mastodon was the first adopter of [ActivityPub] for the use of social networking services, so their work shapes a lot of this FEP. However, complete compatibility with the present implementation of Mastodon is not the primary goal for this FEP. The goal of this FEP is to define a common conformance profile which is similar to the Federated Server profile, but oriented toward social networking features and functionality. To that end, certain features will call out both the "current" and "conformant" way of doing things. This way, implementers will have reference material for both the present and the hopeful future.

## Common abstractions and primitives

User
: An external entity controlling an account. Usually a natural person.

Account
: An internal entity controlling a profile. Usually bound to a set of credentials.

Profile
: A representation of some author of posts. May also colloquially be called an "account" or "user", but does not necessarily map 1:1 onto users or accounts; for example, a single User may have a single Account that may have multiple Profiles. A profile will generally be an actor, so that it can be followed.

Post
: An object intended for social interaction, whether by broadcast or by targeted messaging.

Conversation
: A group of related posts. May also colloquially be called a "thread" or "topic" or "room".

## Representing profiles

### Properties of profiles

Relatively uncontroversial:

`name`
: The display name of the profile. MUST be plain text. MAY be parsed for `toot:Emoji` rendering.

`summary`
: A short bio for the profile. SHOULD be present.

`icon`
: An avatar for a profile. MUST be 1:1 aspect ratio.

`image`
: A header banner for a profile. MAY be any aspect ratio, but SHOULD be wider than it is tall.

`published`
: Creation date of the profile

Somewhat controversial:

`content`
: SHOULD be used for long bios or general profile content. Currently unused.

`attachment`
: SHOULD be an array of metadata. See [FEP-fb2a] for more information about "actor metadata". Future implementations may use a different property for this? 

`preferredUsername`
: Current: Used for Webfinger lookup. MUST correspond to a Webfinger `acct:` URI. SHOULD/MUST be unique on the domain. \\ Future: If Webfinger requirements are lifted or a different algorithm is used for extracting the `acct:` URI, then this property can be used as a literal actual "preferred username" or array of such, with no uniqueness guarantees. May also be colloquially referred to as a "nickname".

`publicKey`
: Current: Used for HTTP Signatures. Future: May be replaced by alternative representations or mechanisms (multikey, HTTP Message Signatures, etc.)

`type`
: SHOULD be either `Person` / `Group` / `Organization` depending on the entity represented by the profile. Current: Uses `Application` and `Service` interchangeably for automated or unmonitored accounts, though this would be better suited for a dedicated property. Future: sameAs vcard Kinds? `vcard:Individual`, `vcard:Group`, `vcard:Organization`. Maybe add support for `vcard:Location`?

Common extensions:

`as:manuallyApprovesFollowers`
: Indicates you will not receive an automatic Accept Follow once you send a Follow. May also be colloquially referred to as a "locked account" or "locked profile".

`toot:discoverable`
: Consent for the profile to be shown in profile directories and other profile discovery features

`toot:indexable`
: Consent for the profile's posts to be shown in full-text search

### Activities related to profiles

`Follow`

`Update`
: Edit profile

## Representing posts

### Properties of posts

`name`
: Title

`summary`
: A brief description

`content`
: The text of the post

### Activities related to posts

## Representing conversations

Current: Not really represented, except implicitly by constructing a tree of `inReplyTo` and `replies`. Future: SHOULD be represented explicitly. (See FEP-7888)

### Properties of conversations

`name`
: Title of the conversation / thread / topic / room

`summary`
: A brief description, tagline, channel status, MOTD, etc.

`content`
: A fuller description of the conversation (e.g. its rules)

`items` or `orderedItems`
: If the Collection is not paged

`first` and/or `last`
: If the Collection is paged

`attributedTo`
: The manager or moderator of the conversation. Implicitly authorized to Add/Remove/Move posts.

### Activities related to conversations

`Add`
: Adds a post to the conversation

`Remove`
: Removes a post from the conversation

`Move`
: Moves a post to another conversation

`Follow`
: Follow the conversation

`Create`
: If conforming to C2S, can be used to create a Collection

`Delete`
: Delete the conversation, orphaning all current posts (which MAY also be deleted)

## List of future proposals

- Actor metadata using native as: properties instead of fake schema.org (FEP-fb2a)
- Long bio using `content` (no FEP yet)
- Conversations (FEP-7888)
- explicit webfinger acct derivation? (no FEP yet but see FEP-25c9 for one take on this)
- vcard types (no FEP yet but is normatively referenced by activitystreams context)
- explicit property for declaring an account to be automated or unmonitored (no FEP yet but could be this one)

## Conformance profile

MUST:
- Use `name` for a profile's display name
  - Use plain text for `name`
- Use `summary` for a profile's short bio
- Use `icon` for a profile's avatar


SHOULD:
- Use `image` for a profile's header image
-

MAY:
- 
-

SHOULD NOT:
-
-

MUST NOT:
-
-

## References

- Christine Lemmer Webber, Jessica Tallon, [ActivityPub][ActivityPub], 2018

[ActivityPub]: https://www.w3.org/TR/activitypub/

## Copyright

CC0 1.0 Universal (CC0 1.0) Public Domain Dedication

To the extent possible under law, the authors of this Fediverse Enhancement Proposal have waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.
